
Version 3.5
To whom it may concern:
This directory contains software for doing unsupervised
clustering. This is done by estimating the parameters
of a Gaussian mixture model using the EM algorithm.

Version 3.x - Modified to better handle singular clusters. 
The cluster covariance matrices are regularized by the addition of a small
constant to the diagonal entries.
Version 3.2 - Simplifies the makefile structure and makes
some corrections to the appendix in the manual that
explains the theory of the algorithm.
Version 3.3 - Clearification to manual appendix.
Version 3.4 - Added classify program
Version 3.5 - Cleaned up ANSI C and integrated with SMAP.1.6
Version 3.5.1 - Minor bug fix
Version 3.5.2 - Integrated diagonal option into code, and removed subcluster2.c
Version 3.5.3 - Fixed code so that Rmin is the same for each class
Version 3.5.4 - Fixed bug in unset value of Rmin in seed subroutine
Version 3.5.5 - Reorganized examples
Version 3.6.1 - Added SplitClasses program
Version 3.6.2 - Cleaned up code; fixed memory leaks; made subcluster reentrant
Version 3.6.3 - Added ability to weight each data vector
Version 3.6.4 - Update manual
Version 3.6.5 - Fixed error in example2


The directory contains the following subdirectories:

documentation/ - This subdirectory contains this manual and other documentation.

src/ - This subdirectory contains the ANSI-C source code and header files 
       required for the ``clust'' program and library. It also contains
       code for the ``classify'' routine that can be used to classify
       data vectors based on the mixture model extracted with ``cluster''.

src/Makefile - This makefile constructs the compiled binaries. These makefiles 
               have been tested for standard Sun and HP unix environments,
               but should work with little or no modification on other 
               platforms supporting ANSI-C code.

example1/ - Example showing how to run "cluster" program.
            This subdirectory contains a shell script that runs a simple 
            example showing how the "clust" program can be used 
            to estimate the parameters of a Gaussian mixture model 
            from training data i.e. cluster data.

example2/ - Example showing how to use the "cluster" and "classify"
            programs together to classify vectors.
            This subdirectory contains a shell script that first runs 
            the ``cluster'' to estimate two Gaussian mixture models (GMM).
            It then runs the ``classify'' program to perform maximum
            likelihood classification of vectors from the 
            two GMM distributions. 

example3/ - Example showing how to use the "cluster", "classify", and "SplitClasses"
            to perform unsupervised classification of data vectors.
            First "cluster" forms a GMM. Next "SplitClasses" separates each component
            of the GMM into a separate class. Finally, "classify" is used to classify
            the original training vectors.


For more information contact:
  Charles A. Bouman
  School of Electrical Engineering
  Purdue University
  West Lafayette IN 47906
  bouman@ecn.purdue.edu
  http://www.ece.purdue.edu/~bouman/

